# Components

## Accordion

An accordion is a UI/UX component used to organize and display content in a
space-efficient, collapsible format. It consists of vertically stacked sections,
each with a clickable header that expands or collapses its associated content.
This design helps reduce visual clutter, allowing users to focus on one section
at a time while keeping other content hidden until needed. Commonly used in
FAQs, filters, or mobile menus, accordions enhance usability by streamlining
content access and improving navigation on both desktop and mobile interfaces.

## Alert

An alert is a UI/UX component designed to capture the user's attention and
convey important information, such as warnings, errors, confirmations, or status
updates. Typically displayed as a small modal or banner, alerts interrupt the
user's workflow to ensure visibility and often require acknowledgment through an
action like clicking “OK” or “Dismiss.” They are commonly used for critical
feedback or decision points—such as confirming deletion or notifying of failed
actions—and should be clear, concise, and appropriately styled (e.g.,
color-coded for severity) to avoid confusion or unnecessary disruption.

## action-link

TODO NHS England

## Avatar circle

An avatar circle is a UI/UX component that displays a user’s profile image or
initials within a circular frame, commonly used to represent a user identity in
apps, websites, and social platforms. This visual element provides a quick,
recognizable way for users to identify themselves or others, often appearing in
headers, comments, chat interfaces, and account menus. The circular shape is
aesthetically pleasing and universally recognized as a placeholder for personal
identity, contributing to a more humanized and personalized user experience.
When no image is available, initials or default icons are often shown inside the
circle.

## Back link

A back link in UI/UX is a navigational component that allows users to return
to a previous page or step within an app or website, often represented as a
left-pointing arrow accompanied by text like “Back” or the name of the previous
page. It enhances usability by providing a clear, intuitive way to reverse
navigation without relying solely on the browser’s back button. Back links are
especially important in mobile and multi-step interfaces, helping users maintain
their sense of orientation and reducing frustration by making navigation feel
more seamless and controlled.

## Badge

A badge is a small UI/UX component typically used to display dynamic status
information, counts, or indicators in a compact, visually prominent format.
Commonly seen as a colored circle or label attached to icons, buttons, or list
items, badges are often used to show unread messages, notification counts, or
activity statuses. They help draw attention to specific elements without
interrupting the user experience. Effective badge design ensures high visibility
through contrast and placement, while keeping content minimal—usually numbers,
short text, or symbols—to quickly convey information at a glance.

## Banner

A banner is a prominent UI/UX component used to display important messages,
updates, or calls to action at the top or bottom of an interface. Often spanning
the full width of the screen, banners are designed to catch the user's attention
without fully interrupting their experience. They are commonly used for
announcements, cookie consent, warnings, promotions, or system alerts. Banners
may be persistent or dismissible, depending on the message’s importance. Good
banner design ensures high visibility, concise messaging, and clear actions—like
buttons or links—so users can quickly understand and respond if needed.

## Beach ball

The beach ball in UI/UX typically refers to a loading indicator or waiting
indicator, most famously seen as the colorful spinning cursor on macOS when the
system is busy or unresponsive. While not always a formal “component” in design
systems, it represents a visual cue that a process is in progress and the user
must wait. In broader UI/UX contexts, similar spinning indicators or animations
(often circular) serve the same purpose—communicating that the system is working
on a task. While helpful for setting expectations, overuse or long durations of
beach ball indicators can lead to user frustration, so they should be paired with
good performance practices or more informative feedback when possible.

## Breadcrumbs

Breadcrumbs are a UI/UX navigation component that displays a trail of links
showing the user's current location within a website or app's hierarchy,
typically appearing near the top of a page. Each link represents a parent page,
allowing users to easily backtrack or understand the structure of the site.
Breadcrumbs enhance usability by improving orientation, reducing the number of
actions needed to navigate, and helping users avoid getting lost—especially in
websites with deep or complex navigation paths, like e-commerce or content-heavy
platforms.

## Button

A button is a fundamental UI/UX component that allows users to trigger an action
or event within an interface, such as submitting a form, navigating to another
page, or opening a menu. Typically, buttons are rectangular or rounded with text
or icons that describe their function (e.g., "Submit," "Cancel," or "Next").
They are often styled to be visually distinct, using colors, shadows, and hover
effects to signal interactivity. Buttons play a crucial role in user navigation
and interaction, making them essential for guiding users through tasks,
providing clear feedback on actions, and enhancing the overall user experience
by offering intuitive, actionable controls.

## Calendar

A calendar is a UI/UX component that displays dates in a structured, visual
format—typically as a monthly grid—and allows users to view, select, or interact
with specific dates. It's commonly used for scheduling, booking, event planning,
or setting deadlines in applications like calendars, to-do lists, or reservation
systems. A well-designed calendar component enhances usability by making date
selection intuitive and efficient, often including features like date pickers,
highlighted current dates, and navigational arrows for switching between months
or years. It helps users manage time-based tasks with clarity and ease,
contributing to a more organized and user-friendly experience.

## Call to action (CTA)

A call to action (CTA) is a UI/UX component designed to prompt users to take a
specific action, such as clicking a button, submitting a form, or making a
purchase. CTAs are typically clear, concise, and visually distinct, often using
contrasting colors, bold text, or icons to stand out and guide users towards the
next step. They play a crucial role in driving user engagement and conversions
by directing attention to key actions within an interface, such as "Sign Up,"
"Learn More," or "Buy Now." A well-designed CTA balances visibility with
clarity, ensuring users understand the action they need to take and are
motivated to act.

## Caption

A caption is a UI/UX component used to provide supplementary text or
explanations alongside images, videos, charts, or other media within an
interface. It typically appears below or near the media element, offering
context, descriptions, or additional details to enhance user understanding.
Captions are often used in galleries, product pages, or educational content to
clarify or add value to visual elements. Effective caption design ensures
readability through appropriate font size, contrast, and concise wording,
helping users interpret the media more easily without overwhelming the main
content.

## Card

A card is a UI/UX component that presents content and actions related to a
single subject in a visually distinct, contained layout—often resembling a
physical card. It typically includes elements like images, titles, text,
buttons, or icons, and is used to group information in a clean, digestible
format. Cards are commonly seen in dashboards, product listings, news feeds, and
profile summaries, providing a modular and responsive way to organize and
display content. Their flexible design enhances visual hierarchy and
scannability, making it easier for users to browse, interact with, and
understand information at a glance.

## Character counter

A character counter is a UI/UX component that displays the number of characters
a user has typed into an input field, often alongside or beneath the field
itself. It’s commonly used in text inputs with character limits—such as tweets,
SMS messages, form fields, or bios—to help users stay within constraints.
Character counters can show remaining characters, total characters used, or
both, and often update dynamically as the user types. When well-designed, this
component improves usability by providing clear, real-time feedback, preventing
errors, and reducing user frustration related to input limits.

## Checkbox

A checkbox is a UI/UX component that allows users to select one or more options
from a list by toggling individual boxes on or off. Represented as small square
boxes that display a checkmark when selected, checkboxes are commonly used in
forms, settings, filters, and preference menus where multiple selections are
allowed. They offer a simple and intuitive way for users to make binary choices
(checked or unchecked), and are often accompanied by labels to clearly describe
the option. Checkboxes enhance usability by supporting flexibility in user input
and ensuring that selections are easy to understand, modify, and submit.

## Checklist

A checklist is a UI/UX component that allows users to track and manage tasks,
options, or steps by marking items as completed or pending. Typically displayed
as a list of actionable items, each with a checkbox that users can tick off as
they progress. Checklists are commonly used in to-do lists, forms, or onboarding
processes, providing a clear and interactive way to guide users through
sequential actions. Well-designed checklists offer visual feedback, such as
checkmarks or color changes, to indicate progress and ensure that users can
easily follow and manage their tasks in a structured, organized manner.

## Date picker

A date picker is a UI/UX component that allows users to easily select a specific
date (and sometimes time) from a visual calendar interface, rather than typing
it manually. Often used in forms, booking systems, and scheduling tools, it
typically appears as a pop-up calendar when a user clicks on a date input field.
Date pickers enhance usability by minimizing input errors, speeding up data
entry, and providing a clear, intuitive way to navigate through days, months,
and years. A well-designed date picker improves user efficiency and accuracy,
especially when dealing with date-sensitive tasks like reservations, deadlines,
or event planning.

## Details

A details UI/UX component is used to reveal or hide additional information on
demand, allowing interfaces to remain clean and uncluttered while still offering
in-depth content when needed. Commonly implemented as collapsible sections or
expandable panels, the details component lets users control the visibility of
secondary content such as explanations, specifications, FAQs, or advanced
options. It enhances usability by supporting progressive disclosure—showing only
what’s necessary upfront and letting users access more as desired. Effective
details components are clearly labeled, easy to toggle, and designed to maintain
context, ensuring a smooth and intuitive user experience.

## Dial

A dial is a circular UI/UX component that allows users to adjust or view a value
by rotating a knob or indicator along a fixed range, similar to physical dials
on devices like thermostats or volume controls. It provides an intuitive and
tactile interaction, often used in applications involving precision settings,
such as audio levels, timers, or control panels. Dials can also serve as visual
indicators of current values, making them useful for monitoring data in a
compact, stylish format. Effective dial design combines smooth interaction,
clear labeling, and visual feedback to ensure accuracy and ease of use.

## Dialog

A dialog is a UI/UX component used to communicate information to users or prompt
them to take an action within an application. Typically appearing as a small
window overlaying the main interface, dialogs can be modal (requiring user
interaction before proceeding) or non-modal (allowing interaction with the
background). They serve purposes like confirmations, alerts, input requests, or
settings adjustments. Good dialog design ensures clarity, minimal disruption,
and clear call-to-action buttons (e.g., "OK", "Cancel") to guide users smoothly
through tasks or decisions.

## Do/don't list

A do/don't list is a UI/UX component designed to guide users by clearly
outlining actions that should or should not be taken in a given context. It
typically presents two distinct columns or sections, one for recommended
behaviors (do's) and another for discouraged or incorrect behaviors (don'ts).
This component is often used in instructional, onboarding, or error prevention
contexts to help users quickly understand best practices, avoid mistakes, or
follow guidelines effectively. Well-designed do/don't lists use concise
language, clear visuals or icons, and easy-to-read layouts, ensuring that users
can easily grasp the key points without confusion or overwhelm.

## Dropdown menu

A dropdown menu is a UI/UX component that allows users to select an option from
a list that appears when they click or hover over a designated menu button or
area. Typically used to save space, dropdown menus are ideal for displaying
multiple choices or actions within a compact interface. They can contain a
variety of items, such as navigation links, settings, or actions, and often
feature hierarchical submenus for additional options. A well-designed dropdown
menu offers smooth interaction, clear labeling, and easy navigation, ensuring
users can quickly find and select the desired option without confusion or
frustration.

## Emoji

An emoji is a UI/UX component used to express emotions, reactions, or concepts
through small, universally recognizable pictorial symbols. Emojis are often
integrated into messaging systems, social media platforms, and interactive
interfaces, allowing users to quickly communicate tone, mood, or context in a
fun and visually engaging way. They can be selected from an emoji picker or
keyboard and are commonly used to enhance user interactions, add personality,
and increase engagement in digital communication. Well-designed emoji
integration ensures accessibility, offers a diverse range of options for
expression, and maintains clarity across different devices and platforms.

## Error message

An error message is a UI/UX component that informs users when something has gone
wrong, such as incorrect input, failed actions, or system issues. It plays a
critical role in guiding users by clearly communicating what went wrong, why it
happened, and how to fix it—ideally using plain, friendly language and visual
cues like color (often red) or icons. Effective error messages reduce user
frustration, support task completion, and enhance overall trust in the
interface. Whether shown inline, as pop-ups, or banners, well-designed error
messages contribute to a smoother, more supportive user experience.

## Error summary

TODO NHS England

## Fieldset

A fieldset is a UI/UX component used to group related form elements together,
often visually enclosed with a border, to indicate they belong to the same
category or set of information. Typically used in forms, fieldsets help organize
input fields logically, making the form more structured and easier to
understand. A legend element can be included within the fieldset to provide a
title or description for the group, further enhancing clarity. By visually
grouping related inputs, fieldsets improve form usability, guiding users through
complex forms and improving accessibility for screen readers.

## File dialog

A file dialog is a UI/UX component that allows users to browse, select, and
upload files from their device to a website or application. Typically activated
by a button labeled “Choose File” or “Upload,” it opens a system dialog where
users can navigate folders and select one or more files. This component is
essential in forms, messaging apps, and content management systems where
user-generated content or document submission is required. A well-designed file
dialog enhances usability by clearly indicating accepted file types, providing
feedback after selection (like showing the file name), and ensuring
accessibility across devices and platforms.

## Flair

A flair is a small UI/UX component used to add visual emphasis, personality, or
categorization to elements within an interface, often in the form of colorful
tags, icons, or labels. Commonly seen in forums, social platforms, or
dashboards, flair can indicate user roles, content types, statuses, or personal
expression (e.g., a badge showing "Moderator" or a tag like "Urgent"). It helps
users quickly identify context or add a touch of individuality to their profiles
or posts. Well-designed flair is subtle yet noticeable, using consistent styling
and color coding to enhance usability without overwhelming the interface.

## Footer

A footer is a UI/UX component located at the bottom of a web page or app screen,
typically used to provide secondary navigation, legal information, contact
details, and links to important but less prominent content like privacy
policies, terms of service, or social media profiles. It serves as a closing
section that helps users find additional resources or revisit key areas without
scrolling back to the top. A well-structured footer improves site usability,
reinforces trust, and ensures accessibility to critical information, especially
on long or content-rich pages.

## Footnote

A footnote is a UI/UX component used to provide additional information,
citations, or clarifications without cluttering the main content. Typically
displayed at the bottom of a page, section, or element, footnotes offer context,
references, or explanations that support the primary content. In digital
interfaces, footnotes are often linked or numbered, allowing users to easily
navigate between the main text and supplementary details. Effective footnote
design ensures that the extra information is easily accessible yet unobtrusive,
helping to maintain the flow of content while providing valuable insights or
references when needed.

## Gauge

A gauge is a UI/UX component used to visually represent a value within a defined
range, often resembling a dial or meter. It’s commonly used in dashboards or
monitoring tools to display metrics like speed, progress, temperature, or system
performance at a glance. Gauges provide an intuitive way to understand data
trends and thresholds, often incorporating color coding (e.g., green for safe,
red for critical) and markers to indicate ideal or warning levels. When designed
well, a gauge offers immediate visual feedback, helping users quickly assess
status without needing to interpret raw data.

## Hamburger menu

A hamburger menu is a UI/UX component represented by a small icon with three
horizontal lines, resembling a hamburger, typically located in the top corner of
a user interface. When clicked or tapped, it reveals a hidden navigation menu or
list of options, helping to keep the main interface clean and
uncluttered—especially on mobile devices or smaller screens. While it saves
space and simplifies the layout, its discoverability and usability have been
debated, as some users may not immediately recognize its function without prior
experience.

## Header

A header is a fundamental UI/UX component typically positioned at the top of a
web page or app screen, serving as a consistent area for branding, navigation,
and key actions. It often contains elements like a logo, navigation links,
search bars, user profiles, or call-to-action buttons. The header plays a
crucial role in guiding users, providing context, and enabling quick access to
essential features across the site or application. A well-designed header
enhances usability, reinforces brand identity, and supports intuitive navigation
throughout the user experience.

## Hint

A hint is a UI/UX component that provides subtle, contextual guidance or
suggestions to help users understand how to interact with an element or complete
a task. Often displayed as placeholder text, tooltips, or inline messages near
input fields or buttons, hints aim to reduce confusion and improve usability
without interrupting the user flow. They can clarify expected formats, explain
functionality, or offer examples, especially in forms or complex interfaces. A
well-crafted hint is concise, timely, and easy to dismiss or ignore once
understood, ensuring it supports the user experience without becoming a
distraction.

## Holy Grail layout

The Holy Grail layout is a classic and widely used web design pattern that
features a three-column structure with a fixed header at the top and a footer at
the bottom. The layout includes a main content area in the center, flanked by a
left sidebar (often for navigation) and a right sidebar (commonly used for
related content or ads). Its name reflects its long-standing value and
flexibility in UI/UX design, offering a balanced way to organize content for
readability and functionality. The Holy Grail layout is particularly effective
for desktop interfaces, providing clear structure and easy access to key
elements while maintaining a cohesive, user-friendly experience.

## Icon

An icon is a compact and visually intuitive UI/UX component that represents
actions, objects, or concepts using simplified graphical symbols. Icons enhance
usability by providing quick visual cues that help users navigate interfaces,
identify functions, or understand information without relying on text alone.
Commonly used in buttons, menus, and toolbars, icons can improve interface
clarity and save space, especially in mobile or minimalist designs. Effective
icon design prioritizes clarity, consistency, and recognizability, often
accompanied by labels or tooltips to ensure accessibility and prevent ambiguity,
especially for new or less familiar symbols.

## Image

An image is a fundamental UI/UX component used to display visual content, such
as photographs, illustrations, or icons, within an interface. Images enhance
user experience by providing visual context, supporting storytelling, or
reinforcing brand identity. They are commonly used in product galleries, blogs,
advertisements, and content-heavy websites. Effective image design ensures
optimal sizing, clarity, and responsiveness across different devices, as well as
proper loading techniques to avoid performance issues. When integrated well,
images can improve user engagement, guide attention, and contribute to a more
visually appealing and intuitive interface.

## Input

TODO

## Inset text

TODO NHS England

## Label

A label is a UI/UX component that provides a descriptive name or instruction for
an associated form element, such as an input field, checkbox, or radio button.
It enhances accessibility and usability by clearly indicating the purpose of the
form element, making it easier for users to understand what information is being
requested. Labels are typically placed next to or above the corresponding form
controls, and when correctly linked with the form element (using the `for`
attribute in HTML), they improve interaction, especially for screen reader
users. Well-designed labels contribute to a more intuitive and inclusive user
experience, ensuring that users can navigate and fill out forms with ease.

## Notification

A notification is a UI/UX component used to deliver timely, non-intrusive
messages to users about events, updates, or actions within an application.
Unlike alerts, notifications are usually passive and do not interrupt the user’s
workflow—they often appear as banners, toasts, or badges in a corner of the
interface or notification center. Notifications can inform users about new
messages, background processes, or system statuses and may disappear
automatically or allow manual dismissal. Effective notification design balances
visibility and subtlety, ensuring users stay informed without feeling
overwhelmed or distracted.

## Pagination

Pagination is a UI/UX component that divides content into separate pages,
allowing users to navigate through large sets of data or information one section
at a time. Commonly used in search results, product listings, and long article
feeds, pagination improves performance and readability by loading only a portion
of the content at once. It typically appears as a series of numbered links,
along with “Previous” and “Next” buttons, enabling users to easily move forward
or backward through content. This component helps manage content overload,
enhances navigation, and gives users a clear sense of progress and location
within a dataset or multi-page layout.

## Panel

A panel is a UI/UX component that serves as a container for grouping related
content, controls, or settings within an interface. Panels are commonly used in
dashboards, sidebars, modals, or collapsible sections to organize information in
a structured and accessible way. They help break down complex interfaces into
manageable sections, improving clarity and user focus. Panels often include
headers, content areas, and optional actions like buttons or icons, and can be
static or interactive—such as draggable or expandable. By compartmentalizing
content, panels enhance usability and allow users to navigate and interact with
information more efficiently.

## Popover

A popover is a UI/UX component that displays contextual information or actions
in a small overlay that appears near the element that triggered it, such as a
button, icon, or link. Unlike tooltips, popovers can contain richer content—like
text, images, buttons, or form fields—and often require user interaction to
dismiss. They are commonly used to provide quick access to related tools or
details without navigating away from the current page. Effective popover design
ensures it is clearly connected to its trigger, positioned intuitively, and easy
to close, enhancing the user experience by offering relevant information or
actions without disrupting workflow.

## Popup

A popup is a UI/UX component that temporarily appears over the main content to
convey information, prompt user actions, or display additional options without
navigating away from the current screen. Popups can take various forms—such as
tooltips, modals, or contextual menus—and are often triggered by user
interactions like clicks, hovers, or page events. They are useful for drawing
attention to specific elements, providing quick feedback, or offering
supplementary details. Effective popup design focuses on timing, relevance, and
minimal disruption, ensuring users receive the necessary information or controls
without feeling overwhelmed or interrupted.

## Radio button

A radio button is a UI/UX component that allows users to select one option from
a predefined set of mutually exclusive choices. Typically represented as small
circular buttons, radio buttons are used in forms or surveys where only one
option is allowed to be selected at a time. When a user clicks on a radio
button, it becomes filled or checked, while other buttons in the same group are
automatically deselected. This behavior visually indicates the user's choice,
making it clear that only one selection is possible. Radio buttons enhance
usability by providing a simple, intuitive way to make single-choice selections
within a group of options.

## Red-Amber-Green (RAG)

The Red-Amber-Green (RAG) UI/UX component is a visual status indicator that uses
the traffic light color scheme—red, amber (yellow), and green—to represent
different levels of status, performance, or urgency. Commonly used in
dashboards, reports, and project tracking tools, it provides an at-a-glance
understanding of how something is performing: green typically means everything
is on track, amber signals caution or minor issues, and red indicates a critical
problem that needs immediate attention. RAG indicators enhance usability by
delivering quick, intuitive feedback through universally understood colors,
enabling users to assess situations rapidly and prioritize actions effectively.

## Scrollbar

A scrollbar is a UI/UX component that allows users to navigate vertically or
horizontally through content that extends beyond the visible area of a container
or screen. It typically appears as a bar along the side or bottom of a
scrollable region, with a draggable thumb (or handle) that represents the user's
current view relative to the total content. A scrollbar provides a user with
both control and context, showing how much content is available and where they
are within it. A well-designed scrollbar is responsive, unobtrusive, and
visually aligned with the overall interface, ensuring smooth navigation without
distracting from the main content.

## Select

A select is a UI/UX component that provides a dropdown menu, allowing users to
choose one or more options from a list. Typically displayed as a button or input
field that expands when clicked, a select component helps condense a long list
of options into a compact, space-efficient format. It is commonly used in forms,
filters, or settings to offer a wide range of choices, such as selecting a
country, date, or category. The select component enhances usability by keeping
the interface clean and organized, enabling users to quickly navigate through a
set of options and make their selection with ease.

## Skip-link

TODO NHS England

## Slide-out drawer

A slide-out drawer is a UI/UX component that slides in from the side of the
screen—usually from the left or right—to reveal additional content or navigation
options without leaving the current page. Often triggered by a button or swipe
gesture, it’s commonly used for menus, filters, settings, or secondary content
in mobile and web applications. This component allows for efficient use of
screen space by keeping less frequently used options hidden until needed,
enhancing focus and minimizing clutter in the main interface while maintaining
easy access to extended functionality.

## Slider

A slider is a UI/UX component that allows users to select a value or range of
values by dragging a handle along a track, typically used for adjusting settings
like volume, brightness, price ranges, or timelines. It provides an intuitive
and interactive way to input data within a defined minimum and maximum, often
displaying real-time feedback as the user moves the slider. Sliders can be
horizontal or vertical and may include labels, tick marks, or numeric indicators
for clarity. Effective slider design ensures smooth handling, visual
responsiveness, and accessibility, enabling precise adjustments while keeping
the interface clean and user-friendly.

## Sparkline

A sparkline is a compact, minimalist UI/UX component used to represent trends or
variations in data within a small, simple graph, typically embedded within text
or tables. Unlike full-scale charts, sparklines display data as tiny, unadorned
line, bar, or win/loss charts, offering a quick, at-a-glance view of patterns,
such as fluctuations in sales, stock prices, or performance over time. They are
particularly useful in dashboards or reports where space is limited but quick
data insights are needed. Sparklines are designed to convey trends without
detailed context or axes, focusing purely on the visual representation of data
movement or distribution.

## Spinner

A spinner is a UI/UX component used to indicate that a process or action is
currently in progress, typically involving loading, submitting, or fetching
data. It often appears as a rotating icon or animated graphic, signaling to
users that they need to wait momentarily. Spinners help manage user expectations
and improve perceived performance by providing visual feedback during delays.
While they don’t convey exact timing, they reassure users that the system is
working. A well-designed spinner is subtle, visually consistent with the
interface, and ideally accompanied by a message or progress indicator if the
wait is expected to be long.

## Summary list

A summary list is a UI/UX component that presents a concise overview of key
information or data points, typically in a structured, easy-to-scan format. It
is often used to summarize important details, such as transaction history,
product features, or settings preferences, in a list-style layout. Each item in
the summary list usually includes a brief description or value, helping users
quickly grasp essential information without being overwhelmed by excessive
detail. A well-designed summary list focuses on clarity, using clear labels,
concise text, and consistent formatting to enhance readability and ensure that
users can easily find the most relevant information at a glance.

## Tab

A tab is a UI/UX component that allows users to navigate between different
sections of content within a single interface by clicking or tapping on labeled
tabs, typically displayed horizontally at the top of a content area. Each tab
represents a distinct section, and only the content related to the active tab is
displayed at a time, keeping the interface clean and organized. Tabs help group
similar information in a compact and accessible way, allowing users to switch
between views without reloading or navigating away from the page. They enhance
usability by providing an intuitive, quick way to explore different content or
options within the same context.

## Table

A table is a UI/UX component used to display structured data in rows and
columns, making it easy to compare and analyze information at a glance. Commonly
used for things like reports, schedules, product lists, or dashboards, tables
organize content into headers and cells, often with features like sorting,
filtering, pagination, and inline editing to enhance usability. A well-designed
table improves data readability, supports efficient decision-making, and allows
users to quickly find patterns or specific details. Tables are essential in
data-heavy interfaces, offering both clarity and functionality in a compact
format.

## Table of contents

A table of contents (TOC) is a UI/UX component that provides a structured,
hierarchical overview of the content on a page or within a document, typically
listing section headings as clickable links. It helps users quickly navigate to
specific parts of the content without scrolling, improving accessibility and
ease of use—especially in long-form pages like articles, documentation, or
reports. A well-designed TOC enhances the user experience by offering clear
orientation, reducing cognitive load, and enabling faster information retrieval.
It’s often presented as a sidebar, dropdown, or sticky element that stays
visible as users scroll through the content.

## Task list

A task list is a UI/UX component that organizes and displays a series of tasks,
actions, or to-dos for users to complete. It is typically presented as a
checklist, where each task can be marked as completed or remain pending. Task
lists are commonly used in project management tools, to-do apps, or onboarding
processes to guide users through a sequence of actions. They help improve
productivity by breaking down complex workflows into manageable steps, offering
clear progress tracking. Effective task list design includes features like task
prioritization, due dates, and visual indicators (such as checkboxes or progress
bars) to enhance user clarity and motivation.

## Textarea

A textarea is a UI/UX component that allows users to input and edit multiple
lines of text, commonly used in forms for comments, messages, descriptions, or
feedback. Unlike a standard input field that accepts a single line, a textarea
provides a larger, scrollable text box that supports extended content. It can be
resized by users (depending on the design) and may include placeholder text,
character counters, or validation feedback to guide input. A textarea enhances
user interaction by offering a flexible and comfortable space for expressing
more detailed thoughts or information within a clean and accessible interface.

## Theme chooser

A theme chooser is a UI/UX component that allows users to switch between
different visual styles or color schemes of an interface, most commonly between
light and dark themes. This component enhances personalization and accessibility
by letting users select a theme that suits their preferences, environment, or
visual comfort—such as using dark mode in low-light settings to reduce eye
strain. Typically found in settings menus or as a toggle icon (like a sun/moon),
the theme chooser contributes to a more user-centric experience by adapting the
interface to different contexts while maintaining consistent functionality.

## Time picker

A time picker is a UI/UX component that allows users to select a specific time
of day, often used alongside a date picker in forms, scheduling tools, or
booking systems. It typically presents a dropdown or interactive interface with
options for hours, minutes, and sometimes AM/PM or seconds, enabling precise and
error-free time input without manual typing. Time pickers enhance usability by
offering a clear and structured way to enter time values, reducing input
mistakes and improving the overall user experience. A well-designed time picker
is intuitive, accessible, and adaptable to various formats (12-hour or 24-hour),
making it easy for users to set appointments, reminders, or deadlines.

## Timeline

A timeline is a UI/UX component used to visually organize and display events,
steps, or data points in chronological order, helping users understand
progression over time. Commonly used in project tracking, activity feeds,
historical overviews, or user journeys, timelines can be vertical, horizontal,
or interactive, often incorporating icons, dates, and brief descriptions for
clarity. This component aids comprehension by making complex sequences more
intuitive and scannable. Effective timeline design emphasizes readability,
logical flow, and visual hierarchy, allowing users to quickly grasp the order,
timing, and significance of events or stages.

## Tree menu

A tree menu is a UI/UX component that displays hierarchical or nested navigation
options, often represented with expandable and collapsible nodes, resembling the
structure of a tree. Each node in the tree menu can contain sub-options or
categories, allowing users to drill down into deeper levels of content or
functionality. This type of menu is particularly useful for organizing complex
or large datasets, file directories, or multi-level categories, as it visually
reflects relationships between different elements. Tree menus enhance usability
by providing an intuitive, organized way to navigate through structured data
while maintaining a compact layout.

## Tooltip

A tooltip is a UI/UX component that provides brief, contextual information when
a user hovers over, focuses on, or taps an element—typically icons, buttons, or
form fields. Tooltips are used to clarify the function or meaning of an element
without cluttering the interface, offering helpful hints, labels, or
explanations on demand. They usually appear as small floating boxes near the
target element and disappear when the interaction ends. Tooltips enhance
usability by guiding users subtly and efficiently, especially in interfaces
where space is limited or where actions may not be immediately self-explanatory.

## Warning callout

A warning callout is a UI/UX component used to draw attention to important
alerts or potential issues that require user attention or caution. Typically
styled with bold colors like yellow or orange, and accompanied by an icon (e.g.,
an exclamation mark), it is used to highlight warnings, errors, or critical
information that could affect the user's experience or actions. Warning callouts
are often placed prominently within the interface to ensure they are noticed,
and they may include additional text or links to help users understand the issue
or take corrective actions. A well-designed warning callout ensures clarity
without overwhelming the user, guiding them toward the necessary next steps.
