# Visualizations

## Donut chart

A donut chart is a UI/UX component similar to a pie chart but with a circular
hole in the middle, creating a "donut" shape. It is used to represent
proportional data, with each segment of the chart illustrating a category's
contribution to the whole. Donut charts are effective for displaying parts of a
whole, such as market share, resource distribution, or percentage breakdowns.
The central hole can also be used to display a total value or additional
information, enhancing the chart's functionality. With its clean and visually
appealing design, the donut chart is often favored for dashboards or data
visualizations, offering clear, intuitive insights with the added benefit of a
modern aesthetic.

## Line chart

A line chart is a UI/UX component used to visualize data points over a
continuous range, typically displayed as a series of connected points or lines
along the X and Y axes. This type of chart is commonly used to track trends,
patterns, or changes over time, making it ideal for displaying time-series data,
such as stock prices, website traffic, or performance metrics. Line charts
provide users with a clear, intuitive way to compare multiple data sets or
monitor fluctuations, helping them easily identify upward or downward trends.
Effective line chart design includes smooth lines, clear axis labels, and proper
scaling to ensure accurate interpretation of the data.

## Pie chart

A pie chart is a UI/UX component used to visually represent data as a circular
graph, divided into slices to illustrate proportions or percentages of a whole.
Each slice of the pie chart corresponds to a category, and its size is
proportional to the categoryâ€™s value relative to the total. Pie charts are
effective for displaying simple, comparative data in an easily digestible
format, often used in dashboards or reports. A well-designed pie chart ensures
clarity by using distinct colors, labels, and legends, allowing users to quickly
interpret the distribution of values and grasp the key insights at a glance.

## Scatter plot

A scatter plot is a UI/UX component used to display data points on a
two-dimensional graph, with each point representing a pair of values along the X
and Y axes. It is particularly useful for visualizing the relationship or
correlation between two variables, helping users identify trends, clusters, or
outliers in large data sets. Scatter plots are often used in data analysis and
statistical tools, allowing users to quickly grasp patterns or insights through
the distribution and positioning of the points. Effective design of scatter
plots includes clear axis labels, appropriate scaling, and optional data point
highlights to enhance readability and interpretation.
