# Epic EMR Software

<https://www.emrfinder.com/epic-ehr-software/>

Developed by Epic Systems Corp, Epic is an Electronic Medical Records (EMR) software with an integrated Practice Management (PM) and Patient Portal solution (MyChart). The Epic EMR software offers extensive clinical content and support for medical specialties such as Cardiology, Mental and Behavioral Health, General Surgery, Gastroenterology, Ob/Gyn, Vascular Surgery, Ophthalmology, Nephrology, and Radiology.

Universally acknowledged as one of the top EMR systems for healthcare organizations, Epic EMR offers practices of all sizes a ‘best of the breed’ cloud-based Electronic Health Records software solution at an affordable cost. A rich clinical data library provides support and customization features backed by clinical decision support tools that allow physicians of any medical specialty to maximize their utilization of the EMR software – ensuring complete and accurate clinical documentation for every patient encounter.

The integrated Practice Management (PM) and medical billing software features ensure that all administrative and billing tasks are handled within the single software platform. This enables medical practices to speed up patient payments and improve efficiency by eliminating paper and consolidating patient balances and other financial information within the same module. The system automatically gathers coding information from clinical activity to enhance the charge capture process, reduce administrative overhead and improve the overall revenue and billing cycle.

Haiku and Canto are dedicated apps for Epic EHR software users using mobile devices and tablets. These apps are designed to enhance the user experience by offering an intuitive and native experience to modern-day physicians. Providers can access the EHR software directly from their phones or tablets which saves time and ensures timely retrieval of critical healthcare information in a highly secure and portable manner. MyChart is a dedicated Patient Portal platform that is available through the Epic EMR system. The secure and intuitive portal allows patients to access their healthcare information including clinical summary, e-prescription (e-Rx) history, view historical appointments and/or schedule new appointments as well as other information including lab and radiology reports instantly. Patients can also request Prescription Refills and securely communicate with their healthcare providers.

Epic EHR is ONC-ATCB certified and fulfills all requirements for Meaningful Use, MACRA & MIPS with a specialized dashboard to track MACRA and Meaningful Use compliance. Epic is fully HIPAA compliant with all data access, storage, and sharing through the Epic EHR platform happening in a highly secure environment that ensures the safety and integrity of Patient Health Information (PHI).

The Epic EMR system is one of the most widely recognized Electronic Medical Records (EMR) software platforms. It has received various awards and accolades such as being named a category leader by Gartner and being named the best overall EMR software suite by KLAS Research. Aside from hospitals and private practices, Epic also provides specialized support for Federally Qualified Health Centers (FQHC), Accountable Care Organizations (ACOs) and PCMH.
